The Project Gutenberg EBook of Puppet Government, by George Revelle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Puppet Government

Author: George Revelle

Release Date: October 1, 2019 [EBook #60401]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PUPPET GOVERNMENT ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           puppet government

                           BY GEORGE REVELLE

                   _Year after year they came back,
                  despite his constant refusals. And
                     still Brandon couldn't figure
                   out why he was so important...._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Worlds of If Science Fiction, October 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Brandon was looking at his desk again.

An artificial grin spread across the narrow face of the Secretary of
Interior who was watching him closely. The Secretary's pencil-thin
fingers continued to toy with the small, wood figure he was holding.
"Brandon," he tried to lie gracefully, "You're a card. A real card."

Brandon shifted his position, brought his attention back to the thin
man with the receding hairline. He couldn't, for the life of him,
remember anything humorous he had said or done. He was too tired to be
jovial. The past few days had sapped his strength. He was exhausted and
there were still two more interviews scheduled.

Good Lord, he thought. Two more! He found his eyes wandering back to
his desk. He would never finish the papers in time. That would mean a
severe penalty.

"Come now, Brandon. Admit it. You _know_ you want to work for us in
Interior."

"Right now I don't know anything," Brandon said wearily. "My head is
tired and clouded. I can't think straight." He rubbed his hand across
his forehead, wondering how much longer he would be able to continue to
say no to their requests. He had almost found himself agreeing with the
thin man a few moments ago. That wasn't good.

Brandon leaned back in the contour chair and let some of the strength
seep back into his outstretched legs. Each year at this time they would
begin to wander in with their strange, outlandish offers of positions
with the government. It was perplexing.

"Why me?" he asked suddenly. "Why in Interior? I know nothing about
such work?"

The thin man leaned foreward, "Because you are a good man, Brandon. And
we need good men these days. Government is big business and we want
the top positions filled with the best men we can get. Besides," the
Secretary laughed softly, "you're wasting your time playing with dolls."

"They aren't dolls!" Brandon said indignantly.

"So they aren't dolls."

"There is a difference," Brandon insisted. "You make it sound as if I'm
in my second childhood."

"All right. Puppets!" The thin man shifted in his chair. He ran his
lean fingers over the hand-painted figure he was holding in one hand.
"But you can see my point."

Brandon shook his head. That was it. He couldn't see the point. His
puppets were becoming world famous, the result of reviving the almost
lost art of hand carving. He was earning a fair living at it. He could
see no reason for a change.

"Think of the prestige if you come with us. You will be heading a
department of your own," the Secretary said.

Brandon wrinkled his brow, thinking of how his name was already
associated with his puppets. If only they would leave him alone, if
only there wasn't so much paper work waiting for him on his desk, he
would be able to spread out, expand, really have a going business. But
they had to keep pestering him with worthless offers that they knew he
couldn't handle, wasting his time, especially now when time was of the
essence. The paper work on his desk had to be completed by midnight. He
would never finish it now.

Brandon felt the beginning of a headache. Because of the paper work
he hadn't had time to touch a new puppet in months. Now these damn
interviews were keeping him from the desk work. It was a vicious circle
leading to ruin.

"You will be serving your Country, Brandon," the Secretary said
strongly. "Not fiddling with dolls."

"I told you...."

The Secretary held up his hand. "I know. Puppets."

       *       *       *       *       *

Brandon got up and walked to the window and looked out at the setting
sun. It was hard to define; there were some things words couldn't
explain. All the offers had been good ones. But a man had to have some
rule, some yardstick to guide him. Brandon had his. He wanted to
be useful, that wasn't too much to ask. Life was too short to waste
laboring in a position he wasn't fitted for. If he took Interior's
offer all that would be ended. He would be caught in a web which
allowed no escape.

Brandon turned. "I'm afraid, Mr. Secretary, that you don't understand
my position. It isn't that I feel above being employed by the
President. I have all the respect in the world for him and his office.
I have nothing but respect for you...."

"Then what is it, Brandon?"

"I don't think I would be happy taking orders from some one else."

"We all have a boss, Brandon."

"I haven't."

The Secretary grinned. "You can head your own department. The President
and myself will be the only ones you will have to answer to, I promise."

"That's what I mean," Brandon answered softly.

The Secretary felt his face flush. "You _are_ insinuating that you are
above working for the President, Mr. Brandon!" he said stiffly.

"You're twisting words." Brandon's voice was determined. "It's just
that I like to work alone. I like to put my hat on and go, whenever,
and wherever I please."

The Secretary shook his head "Brandon! I happen to know that you
haven't been off this estate, this property of yours, in the past five
years."

"That doesn't alter a thing. I can go, anytime I please. I have no
reason to leave now. But when I do, I won't feel obligated, I won't
have to ask permission."

The Secretary relaxed. "You can do that in the department anytime you
wish. Visit the conservations, then, when you are tired of traipsing
around, you can come back and write up a report or two." The Secretary
cleared his throat. "Just for the records, of course."

Brandon sighed. "Of course. Just for the records." He brushed back
his thick, black hair and sat down. Damn it. Why couldn't they leave
him alone? That was all he wanted, to be left alone. He was sick of
all this. They knew he wasn't fitted to be a clerk in any of the
departments. Yet they wasted his time offering him important positions,
as if the title would persuade him. Why?

"We could outlaw your doll-making," the Secretary said casually.

Brandon shrugged his shoulders. "Harmonics did that with my music
writing, remember! I didn't always do hand-carving."

The Secretary remembered. He had had an indirect hand in that. It had
been thought that if Brandon was suddenly without income he might
easily be persuaded to accept a position. They hadn't counted on
Brandon's resourcefulness, nor his stubborness.

The thin man leaned back in his chair, looked again at the doll thing
resting in one hand. The man was clever; there was a life-like quality
to the doll. Brandon was an artist and it would be a shame to take him
out of circulation. Yet what could he do? The President had insisted on
the visit again this year, knowing full well that Brandon would turn
down the offer.

Suddenly, the Secretary felt sorry for Brandon. The man was breaking
down and didn't realize it. His face was drawn and pale. He looked
dog-tired.

"Won't you change your mind, Brandon?" the Secretary asked softly.
"With Interior you will have an opportunity to get out into the
sunlight. It will be a healthy life visiting the many conservations we
have situated around the country; it will agree with you, I'm sure."

Brandon sighed. "I'm afraid, Mr. Secretary, that we are both wasting
our time. I have a tremendous amount of paper work to finish before
midnight tonight and I am tired. I also have a few more interviews
before I can get at it." Brandon got up, "So if you don't mind--"

The thin man looked at Brandon searchingly. "Won't you reconsider?"

"I'm afraid not," Brandon answered.

The Secretary paused at the door. "See you next year, then!"

"Next year," Brandon answered flatly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Secretary of Interior hardly spoke to the young man waiting by his
vehicle. He wanted to get away from there as soon as possible. These
yearly visits to Brandon always upset him, made him feel like a cad. It
would be days before he shook the unwanted feeling.

"How did it go?" the young man asked eagerly.

The Secretary took in the youngish face, the confidence flowing from
the eyes. Evans always managed to give that youthful impression, yet he
wasn't really a young man. In a way the thin man envied Evans ... with
one exception, of course. This would be Evans' first visit to Brandon.
Some of the confidence would be gone when he walked out of Brandon's
house.

"I said how did it go?" Evans repeated.

The Secretary shrugged his thin shoulders. "As usual. He refused."

Evans showed white, even teeth. "Is he tired?"

"Very."

"Excellent," Evans said "And the paper work. Is it worrying him?"

The thin man studied Evans. No, he didn't envy the man any longer.
Evans had no feelings; it was written on his face. "The paper work is
worrying him to death," he heard himself say.

"Wonderful!"

The Secretary became conscious of the small figure he was holding in
his hand. He had walked out with one of Brandon's creations! Suddenly,
he slammed it to the ground. The paint chipped and cracked. The small
head rolled loosely across the lawn. Evans looked at him queerly.

"I think _you_ need a rest," the young man said softly, unsmiling.

"Brandon is a good man. I hate to see him broken. He has a lot of
talent. But not for the work we're offering him. It isn't right,
grinding him into the dirt the way we are."

Evans leaned over, picked up the broken puppet. One arm was twisted at
an odd angle, the clown suit was torn and dirty. Evans tried to fit the
head back on the small body. Finally he succeeded.

He looked at the Secretary of Interior. His eyes seemed different. "I
have a position he can fill and do a good job. He won't refuse. I'm
sure." Evans walked away, toward Brandon's house, still holding the
broken figure.

       *       *       *       *       *

Brandon stood on the veranda looking across his small estate, in the
direction of the city. The site of the government was located there.
Perhaps that was why he was so reluctant; he lived too close to it,
had it around him day in and day out. The Government was ubiquitous,
omnipresent and omnipotent. It dominated every conversation, every
business, every life from birth to death. Lately it even seemed that
every one he came in contact with held a position with some agency
connected with the government.

"Mr. Brandon!"

"I know," he answered without turning. "You're from Labor."

"We've never met!"

Brandon turned and took in the lean individual who called himself
Evans. Quite different from the one who had called last year. That one
had been old and grumpy. Brandon's lips parted: "I assumed. All the
other departments have been here except Revenue. I didn't see Wilson
standing outside; I've heard he's out of the country. That leaves you."

"You could have been wrong, you know," Evans said.

"How?" Brandon asked without fully caring.

"Revenue has been split. There are two departments now. Revenue and
Taxation. Taxation handles income from taxpayers only."

"Big deal," Brandon said harshly, remembering his desk piled high with
papers.

"They say you are a stubborn man, Brandon."

"Stubborn?"

"Quite."

"Let's say I'm content with my lot."

"Are you really, Brandon?"

Brandon took in the young man's wide shoulders, the face that was
almost too young for such a responsible position. For just an instant
he had felt that this man would be different, that there might be a
challenge here. He could see he was wrong. The man was going to offer
him a position.

"Let's get to the point," he said hurriedly. "I'm happy making puppets
and I feel no need for a change."

"I'm glad you are happy, Mr. Brandon."

"Good. Then there is no need to continue. I refuse your offer." Brandon
was getting irritated. He didn't wait for an answer, he walked past
Evans, into the house.

He stood by his desk. The pile of papers was still resting there,
waiting for him. He had hoped, in some magical way, that they might
have vanished. A foolish thought, he knew.

"Income tax?" he heard Evans say from his shoulder.

Brandon nodded wearily. Evans reached over and picked up a form. He
frowned. "Complicated!"

"Each year it gets worse," Brandon said listlessly.

"I've never had to file one," Evans said.

Brandon lifted one eyebrow.

"Government employees never do. We are paid a flat sum and our
subsistance is taken care of. Calculators and computers adjust our
salary each year in proportion to the expense of the government. We
have been operating out of the red that way for years. It works out
fine."

Brandon ran his hands through the papers and forms. Why then did he
have to wade through this mess each year when it could be made so
simple? He had been staggering under the load.

"You're an independent, Brandon," Evans said. "You stay in business
for yourself because you dislike working for someone else. Isn't that
right?"

"You might say that."

Evans dangled a handful of papers in front of Brandon's brown eyes.
"You are working for someone else now. The tax department."

"Not exactly. I don't have to answer to anyone."

Evans snorted. "Not even the tax collector?"

"Not unless I make an error," Brandon said stubbornly. "And I won't.
I'm becoming an expert on this. When a man spends one hundred days a
year working on these damn things he learns quite a bit. There will be
no errors."

"One hundred days!" Evans laughed. "Soon it'll be every day of the
year. Then where will you be?" He looked directly into Brandon's eyes.
"Can't you see? You're in the web already, working a third of the year
without compensation."

Evans pulled from his pocket the the broken puppet he had picked up
from the driveway outside Brandon's house. He laid it in front of
Brandon on the pile of income tax blanks. "Soon you'll be without
income; your business will deteriorate from lack of attention."

Brandon said nothing.

Evans moved to the contour chair and sat down. He closed his eyes.
"You've been out of circulation a long time, Brandon. The world is
changing. Government is big business, one of the largest, and it's
expanding. We need more men, good men."

Evans opened his eyes and looked at the ceiling. "You said you've
become an expert on forms. Would you consider taking a position as head
of the tax department?" he asked abruptly.

Brandon lifted his gaze from the desk. "I thought you were with labor?"

"I could arrange it." Evans closed his eyes again.

"But...."

"Think, Brandon. As chief of the bureau, you won't have to answer to
anyone, not even the President. You've seen the mess the forms have
become. You can straighten it out."

"I don't think...."

"I'll have it put in writing that no one will bother you."

Brandon stared at the papers on his desk. For the first time they were
offering him a position he understood, one he could handle. It would
be a challenge. He would be in a position to eliminate three-quarters
of that damn paperwork. God knew how many like himself were gradually
getting snowed under each year.

Brandon played with the puppet. The silly face stared back at him with
a fixed, smiling expression. "Tell me, Evans," he asked idly. "Why so
much effort to locate me in a government position? I've had no special
training; this is the first offer I'm even qualified enough to accept."
He lifted the puppet face high, gazed at its face. "For ten years I've
been pestered."

Evans laughed as he pulled a sheet of paper from his pocket. "You have
determination and will-power. We need that type of nature these days
more than ever." Evans' smile became wide. "And you will be one less
taxpayer we will have to worry about now. You'll be on our side."

Evans pushed all the forms from Brandon's desk with a sweep of his
tanned hand. "Forget all of that, Brandon, forever. No more taxes for
you. This is the last form you will have to sign. It appoints you
Secretary of Taxation, carte blanche."

"You had all this prepared?" Brandon said in amazement.

Evans' smile grew wider. "We knew you couldn't refuse an intelligent
offer, one where you would be useful."

"We!"

"The cabinet and myself."

Brandon picked up the pen, twisted it between his fingers. Evans was
right, of course. He would be useful. Half those damn forms were filled
with worthless nonsense that could easily be eliminated. Deductions
should be higher; small, independent business should be given a break.
And he could handle the job--that was important.

"Just sign on the bottom line," Evans said smoothly, pushing the broken
puppet out of the way.

The puppet fell to the floor and the head came off again. "Forget it,"
Evans said quickly.

Brandon studied the other man's face before he reached over and
picked up the little figure. It was a funny creature with a large,
silly-looking balloon nose. Brandon handled it tenderly, looking at it
thoughtfully. Finally he said: "My puppets. What happens to them?"

"I don't understand?"

"Children enjoy them," Brandon answered.

"I'm afraid you don't understand, Brandon," Evans shook his head. "I'm
offering you a full-time position. You can make them--as a hobby of
course--give them away, but you can't sell them. That would give you an
income again, mean more tax forms."

"But I couldn't hope to produce them for nothing," Brandon insisted.
"Not on a large scale, not on the fixed salary that you mentioned!"

"They aren't important, Brandon."

Brandon's lips became a firm, straight line. For the first time it
was clear to him why he had been so reluctant to give up his work. His
music had pleased people, just as his puppets were doing now. He was
getting satisfaction out of his work. He was giving people something
no one else seemed to be able to give them. Accepting a position he
couldn't handle, working for someone else had nothing to do with it....

"I've changed my mind," he said quietly.

"Changed your mind?" Evans stared at the pen Brandon had carefully laid
down on the desk; disbelief disfiguring his face. "You intend fighting
_that_ each year?" he pointed at the mad array of papers he had strewn
at Brandon's feet. "You're willing to risk not having any time at all
to work on your puppets against security and a life of ease?"

"I'm willing," Brandon answered. "Now I think you'd better leave
Mr....."

"Evans!"

"Mr. Evans. I might be able to finish these damn things before the
midnight deadline."

Evans opened his mouth but Brandon was already showing him the way to
the door, shoving something in his hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Evans climbed into his car and slumped down on the seat beside the
President. He looked at the new puppet Brandon had forced into his hand
before he could refuse.

"Is Brandon Secretary of Taxation?" the President asked hopefully.

Evans shook his head from side to side. What had gone wrong? They had
known Brandon was a stubborn man, that was why things were done as they
were. The offering of worthless positions had been a feint. He should
have grabbed at something he could handle. And the tax forms! That was
supposed to be the last straw. They had been loaded, prepared just for
Brandon, to break his resistence. Yet they had failed. Why?

"Did he suspect?" The President eyed Evans.

"I don't think so, Sir." Evans said. "I had the pen in his hand. He was
ready to sign. Then something went wrong. I can't understand it!"

The President looked the other way, found his eyes fastened on his own
reflection on the window. The cabinet had been wrong thinking it was a
job for a psychologist like Evans. Brandon was an individual, a decided
rarity in this day and age.

"I'm glad," the President said softly to the glass.

"What was that, Sir?"

The President turned. "I said, I'm glad he didn't sign."

"You can't mean that, Sir!"

"But I do."

"Do you realize what this means? Brandon was the last taxpayer. We've
been forced to operate an entire bureau just to process his forms. It's
the only department operating in the red. He's the only person not
employed by the government, the only one still operating a private
business!"

Evans found himself clenching the puppet tightly in his fist. "We
_will_ break him. I know we will. Next year it will take him 365 days
to compute his tax. I promise."

"Next year," the President said firmly, "Brandon will get a short form.
One that he can complete in ten minutes. Do you understand, Evans?"

Evans' forehead creased. "I'm afraid--"

The President looked back at his reflection on the glass. "We don't
want to make the boss angry now, do we Evans?"

"The boss, Sir?"

"Brandon, of course," the President smiled. "After all, the government
works for the taxpayers, Evans--and Brandon is the last taxpayer. He's
our boss, son. The only boss we have left."

"Mr. President. If I might--"

The President returned his gaze to Evans. "I think we've forgotten
something over these past years, Evans. Something very important."

"What is that, Sir?"

The President removed the puppet from Evans' limp fingers. "If the sole
purpose of the government is to serve the taxpayers--and there were no
more--how could we justify our existence in office?"

The President ran his finger under the chin of the little puppet, "Do
you mind if I keep this, Evans?" he asked softly. "I'd like to take it
home to my granddaughter. She's never seen a puppet, I'm sure she'll
love it."

The tiny figure seemed to smile approvingly.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Puppet Government, by George Revelle

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PUPPET GOVERNMENT ***

***** This file should be named 60401.txt or 60401.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/4/0/60401/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

